Professional Resume 

Name	Rulong Wang / Raymond 
Mobile	
Email:                                                me@rulong.org
Working Experience
From 2015/7 to Present : HSBC China, GLCM (Global Liquidity and Cash Management)	 
From 2011/10  to 2015/6 : SAP China , DBS (Digital Business Service)
From 2008/06  to 2011/09  :  IBM China, GBS( Global  Business Service) 
Education:   Bachelor of Network Engineering, Jinan University 
Language:   Proficient in English and Chinese
Business Experience
@IBM	
Mr. Raymond started his career path from IBM as management trainee in 2008 after graduation from university. The major accountability was support corporate to transform or optimize their financial service  by offering innovative technical solution , such as ERP, business analytics software and etc.

Roles that Raymond played with:

As consultant, the responsibility was to understand and analysis client’s actual business requirement by arranging interview sessions, organizing workshops and offering best practice training.  Then con-vert their business requirements to the language that technical delivery team can well understand.

As presales consultant, was engaged in big deals pitching activities, such as RFI, RFP and PoC.

As financial service topic champion, keep tight communication with product owner (External or Inter-nal), to make sure the knowledge is most updated and also have exact understand of product roadmap/lifecycle. Meanwhile, organize trainings for internal stakeholders and external partners or customers.

@SAP
The key accountability was to execute China Dragon strategy, it was a 2 billion euros investment that SAP AG did in China market. 
Roles that Raymond played with:
As financial service topic champion, was tightly engaged with SAP China labs, to provide the re-quirements we collected from top clients. Select and recommend clients for co-innovation and co-marketing event.  Initiated SAP Financial Service Best Practice for China customers and is one of the key contributors of the solution.  To work with AFCA (Asia Financial Cooperation Association, http://www.afca.com.cn/en/, more than 30 banks), build SAP banking rapid deployment solution.

As senior financial consultant/Solution Architect, to provide advice for key clients and guide imple-mentation team to deploy/realize SAP best practice.  For example, I designed a distributed payment engine for Baoshang bank for handling their China CNY domestic payments,  the throughput can reach 100K payments per minutes at least which can well support their business expansion, even in 11.11(Alibaba’s black Friday)

As project manager, to make sure our service/solution can be delivered with expected time, cost and resource. For example, in Baoshang Bank project, we delivered core banking service with 18months by offering SAP Banking rapid deployment solution, which is a new benchmark in China market.
The solution are also implemented in China MinSheng Bank

As presales consultant, was engaged in most key RFPs which relevant to SAP Financial Service. 

As de-escalation manager, was response to handle client’s urgent enquiry on SAP Financial service that was raised from ASP countries. 

@HSBC 
My position is the Vice President of Client Integration
The key accountability is to build health ecosystem for HSBC China GLCM, seek partnership with ERP, TMS vendors and Fintech startups, to make HSBC liquidity and cash management solution (Global Payments and Liquidity management) as their embedded function by default. 
Supervise these projects which have the requirement of integration with HSBC digital channel and solutions.
Manage/Apply remediation for regulatory change.
Draft HSBC GLCM Best Practice for China corporate clients, especially their oversea cash manage-ment and liquidity management.
Organize webinar for China corporate treasury to promote HSBC GLCM solution in China market.
Response enquiry on RMB internationalization as technical representative. 
Topic owner of SWIFTnet, provide advice to corporate treasury/management team. For example, top corporates in surveillance industry, they are trying to expand their business in overseas, was looking for our experience sharing and professional advice.
Participate in presales activities, such as RFP, onsite presentation and etc.
I am a member of China Treasury Management Organization. 


My projects (selection)

@HSBC 
Not allowed to disclose client’s info without permission from HSBC
Most of the projects are focused on the corporate treasury solution integration with HSBC Payments and Liquidity solution by leveraging HSBC digital channel, solution or SWIFTnet. 
China will be world largest emerging market in the world, my observation is that there will be more and more oversea companies coming to China, also more China corporates has strong intention to extend their business to overseas, especially along with China Belt and Road Initiatives and RMB interna-tionlization, it is a very clear trend. 

@ SAP
•	NanShan Life(Taipei) (2015.03 – 2015.06)
As presales and senior financial service consultant, also 
•	Baoshang Bank (2014.01 – 2015.02)
As banking solution architect and project manager, was involved in the full cycle of the core banking solution RFP, presales, solution design and implementation. 
•	SAP Global Escalation Center (2013.07-2013.12)
As SAP APJ De-Escalation manager, was responsible for the very critical customer case communication, control and management which raised around ASP countries.
•	China MinSheng Bank Core Banking project(2013.3 – 2013.06 )
As senior financial service consultant, offering advice on Deposit management and Cash Pooling. 
•	MinMetals Financial Co-Innovation Project (2012.08-2013.02)
As senior consultant, to make sure MinMetals as the industry beacon customer, who is the first client to use their SAP New General Ledger. And bring new UI technology to them.
•	Roche Financial Service Process Optimization Project @Switzerland/EMEA (2012.07)
As senior consultant, help Roche optimize their cash management solutions, such as in-house bank, auto payments and auto reconciliation. 
•	Italy National Railway Financial Share Service Center Project @Italy/EMEA (2012.06)
As senior consultant, designed to-be business operation process and guide solution implementation. 
•	BMW China , Financial APJ  
Engaged in sales activity as solution advisor          
@IBM                    
•	Micron China Financial Service Implementation Project (2011.06-2011.10)
•	L’Oreal China ERP project (2010.3-2010.12)
•	TokioMarine Insurance Auto payment Project (2009.11-2010.2)
•	China Life Business Intelligent Project(Cash Forecasting)  (2009.08-2009.10)
•	AB-Inbev project ( China Financial Share Service Center Project)(2009.01-2009.07)
•	Lenovo MA (Acquisition of IBM PC) project  (2008.07-2008.12)

